[Music]
alright ladies and gentlemen welcome
according to our magic iPhones which by
the way has become the timekeeper for us
if it says that all the time on the
iPhone we go for it I'm really looking
forward to hearing this next
presentation we're gonna be talking
about blockchain and what's going on
there and particularly how we're gonna
be able to see blockchain and monetary
policy and this is sponsored by the
digital Chamber of Commerce and they
look at where we're going how this is
going to integrate into our society and
what blockchain is one of the things I
like as you can see we've got a panel
here I particularly like the panel the
format of that gives you the idea of
being able to hear from many different
points of view so I would welcome your
questions we should have enough time for
some write those down as we go and
toward the end we'd want to do that
it'll be up to the panel to do that but
now what I would like to do is to invite
those on the panel to come on board and
they'll introduce themselves come on up
thank you for the introduction in terms
of timing we have until 1:55 are you
guys have to keep me honest on the time
got it thank you for the introduction my
name is herion boring and i'm the
founder and president of the chamber of
digital commerce and we're gonna be
talking about blockchain and monetary
policy so some crypto economics which it
takes a real nerd to truly appreciate
this this topic I think like all the
cool people are still in the tent
partying and listening to music and
while we're gonna get down into some
cool details in terms of how Bitcoin and
blockchain is really changing the world
in terms of economics and the flow of
money and how people interact with that
so I'll have each of our panelists
introduce themselves so your name where
you're from where you're coming in from
today I'm coming in from DC and in a
little bit of background of your your
work in the blockchain sector I'm Ellen
Brown I'm the founder and chairman of
the public banking Institute and I've
just finished a book called the coming
revolution in banking democratizing
finance in the digital age so I've
written a lot about blockchain and
researched it oh sorry I'm from Los
Angeles Patrick Byrne I'm in from Salt
Lake City Utah
I am the founder and CEO of
overstock.com we have a incubator we
started a few years ago within overstock
called Medici that is incubator VC for
blockchain and FinTech endeavors of
which we have nine and one that I'm most
proud of is we have a investment in a
company in Barbados that is basically
blockchain meat central banking which
may be why I'm here on this yes I've
been on a whole tour but just Lima Peru
I guess
and Beijing pardon me
based on you are just in from Beijing
actually I'm Catherine also fits I'm
publisher of this Larry report I'm from
Hickory Valley Tennessee which is a
small farming cotton farming community
west of an hour east of Memphis I am
very interested in how blockchain
technology can be used to enforce the
Constitution one of the things I've been
tracking for many years is we have now
19 trillion and Counting missing from
the federal government
I'd like to get it back so that what
whether we have a government or not we
can make sure all the obligations that
the government is made to you can be
fulfilled so I'm here learning Dennis
Kucinich from Cleveland Ohio I served 16
years in the United States Congress and
I come to this issue as someone who
after five years of work created a
legislative vehicle by which we would
transform the role of the Federal
Reserve take America from a way from a
debt based economic system and what I
saw in looking at the blockchain
technology are some similarities in what
the bill that I wrote called the need
Act does and the need act is an acid
based system the blockchain works on an
asset based system
it's peer-to-peer as is blockchain
doesn't create inflation
nor does blockchain its account holder
to account holder there is
accountability and there's auditability
so these are all features of the bill
that I've written and it kind of fits in
very nicely with a number of
features of black chain technology I'm
very happy to join you thank you thank
you very much all right so in terms of
blockchain and monetary policy through
work that we do at the chamber of
digital commerce were headquartered in
Washington DC and very much a part of
that dialogue between the industry and
technologists and government so we see
government intervention as a major risk
to the hindrance of adoption of this
technology so our goal is to work with
government public policymakers and
ensure that when they look at this
technology they do so in a way that will
support innovation that will foster
innovation technology entrepreneurship
investment jobs but at the same time
they also hold the guns and regulators
regulate so they have their concerns
like consumer protections investor
protection so on and so forth so trying
to meet their goals while also allowing
the technology to thrive in terms of
central banks and some central banks
operate as both a regulator and the
controller of monetary policy but not
every country the Fed is an example of
that but for example in Canada their
central bank only does monetary policy
they're not also a regulator so we'll
focus on the monetary policy piece for
this discussion and in terms of central
bank's getting involved so we do know
that this is certainly on their radar
we've seen a number of comments in the
news through throughout the world from
the Fed and other central banks but what
do you think
central banks should be doing today in
regards to Bitcoin blockchain crypto
what type what type of action or advice
if you were advising a central bank
maybe you are what would you give and
this is
kind of just open to the panel how much
time would you prefer what you choose
yeah we have we have an hour so what
happened I want about eight questions or
ten questions yeah but I'm just asking
just as a protocol so just take a few
minutes okay great
okay well central banks have to continue
to monitor the use of crypto currencies
and have to investigate the
applicability of blockchain and
distributed ledger technologies and
after work with national Treasuries and
finance ministries and revenue agencies
to continue tracking transactions that
are made with crypto currencies as many
of you know the chain analysis systems
already being used by the IRS to deal
with issues of anti money laundering and
to make sure international laws and
agreements in a I think the you know
what we have here with blockchain is an
opportunity to cause central banks to to
rethink and restructure the architecture
of our of our national monetary and
financial systems to make them less
fragile and less and more resilient you
know the current system has its
structural defects with respect to
systematizing banking crises government
debt accumulation income inequality
environmental destruction and so the
biggest problem would be of central
bank's would blindly replicate the the
current system what I spoke about
earlier is this legislation called the
need ad for an asset based system with
safe and secure peer-to-peer
architecture so the central banks have a
role the place certainly but I think
that in this whole process of talking
about blockchain we will come up with
some ways that central banks who will be
unable to rethink the position that
they've
taken with respect to their current
structure which has a lot of flaws may I
jump in would you go you go okay I'm
reminded well but that central bank
should be digitizing their fiat currency
onto the blockchain and letting us go
forward with that we have to there are
many of us who feel Milton Friedman was
once asked by the Federal Reserve
Minneapolis magazine that Bank magazine
in an interview in 1992 what's the most
important issue facing America and he
said the most important issue facing
America is how do we get rid of you
reminded Thomas soul was once asked to
during an interview and he said you know
it by somebody who didn't get who was
talking to and and so well said well we
should cut it what to do at the Federal
Reserve we should cut it out we should
only now eliminate it and the guy meet
at least said because he was a
conservative Republican immediately said
what do we replace it with what he said
listen it's like cancer when someone's
just take out a tumor they don't say
what am I gonna replace it with I'm
afraid that consensual bankers are going
to see this as a step in that direction
which it is but setting that well as a
step in that direction of ultimately
this if we are in the right about that
but in the meantime it's a way that they
can add about 2% growth rate to their
economy if they cut it if they digitize
their Afiya okay so if I was advising a
central bank I'd probably be telling
them what was good for them and I'm not
sure if for the reasons Patrick just
eloquently described and Dennis
described that I want to do that so what
I would say to the central bank you know
we have several problems one is our
political system doesn't have integrity
our financial system doesn't have
integrity and unfortunately our digital
systems don't have integrity
now blockchain if I understand it
correctly has the potential to really
help to start to move the digital
systems to integrity
and if we can do that then we can start
to move these other systems to integrity
and the question is how we do it so one
of the things I would ask a central bank
to do is to simply prototype watching
internally so that they learn what it is
and how to use it that they work with
their member banks to do it particularly
the smaller banks because my concern is
it will consolidate us into the banks
that have the most force and power in
the system and then the third thing I
would say is if we're going to get the
an entrepreneur back into the game in a
changing economy we need digital systems
that have integrity and if you want to
be helpful here and make this technology
accessible at the community and local
level the community banks could play a
very important role in this we're going
to need your help at a federal level to
try and bring real integrity to the
digital systems and that's a leadership
role that they can fight that will
probably sell better
so if they were actually listening to me
what I would say is or what I think they
should say is good idea let's let's do
that and that they should imitate that
model which is what they are talking
about which is they're talking about
central bank digital currencies which I
actually think is an excellent idea
because currently only about 5% of the
money supply is actually created by our
central bank all of the rest is created
privately by banks when they make loans
so what they're talking about in England
would be a central bank digital currency
on a blockchain or something like a
blockchain I think they're looking a
triple right now which is not exactly a
blockchain it's sort of a series of
blocks rather than a global distributed
ledger which which is a bit slow and
expensive for a national currency so if
you had a central bank digital currency
on cryptographically whatever all the
techniques you're talking about if they
use the best of those techniques they
could open up their deposit window what
they're talking about is opening up
their deposit window to everyone which
would be great we could avoid banking
crises we could avoid Deposit Insurance
I mean they're they've got the deep
pocket there's no way they're gonna run
out of money we could get rid of the
part of the repo market that's just
there to service funds that have over
250,000 dollars they don't have anyplace
else to put their money but their
concern in doing it is that where would
the banks get the money to then make
loans and that they would bankrupt the
banks but it seems to me what they
should do then is also open their
lending windows to individuals now that
we know that banks don't actually lend
their deposits but create the many of
them and on their books the Federal
Reserve could do that just as easily
basically you'd be borrowing from the
cloud and so you don't really need a
private bank fractional reserve system
you could be borrowing you could really
you'd be monetizing your own promise to
repay which is what banks do but it
would be much more efficient on a
central bank blockchain type system a
perfect segue into the next question
here so assume that central banks do
take notice so your great advice and
they do start looking to implement
blockchain technology what types of
benefits can that pose and you've
touched on those but when open it up to
the panel what types of benefits can
blockchain bring to monetary policy and
what types of risk also should we be
thinking about and considering well the
benefits are pretty obvious if you have
a blockchain or distributed ledger can't
be copied or counterfeited now but if
you're talking about the risks
oh those two can be apparent insider
trading the potential of monopoly within
the blockchain you know of course
depends on the coding you're talking
about
you know people could essentially
engineer their own merger and
acquisition within a block change and on
a larger level you could be looking at
the creation of a financial weapon of
mass destruction where blockchain power
is amassed and used to damage others but
you know those are risks that as opposed
to the benefits which are pretty obvious
so I would say that as somebody who
tries to effect international payments
with great disgust the you know there
are two very powerful things that we one
we want to be able to transact with each
other across borders very simply at low
cost and the second thing is we we want
to be able to connect and transact with
everybody you know as everybody comes
into the global markets and in theory if
we could make a blockchain technology
scalable this gives us the opportunity
to do it and not only do that but do it
in a way which I love believe it or not
given that I'm a finance person we can
re optimize so many transactions on the
asset side of the balance sheet we can
cut the finance guys out of almost
everything and and the efficiencies of
that are wonderful but it comes back to
who rules and who controls and my fear
is you can't solve a political problem
with a financial or technology tool and
we have a political problem on this
planet and the and the and the political
problem we have the governance structure
we have now rules by physical force and
we can blockchain although all we want
but as long as they can tear up the
pipes it still won't address that
physical force the advantages that we
can point out to them are - one is that
they won't have much better surveillance
of the economy and just in the sense of
knowing what money is doing money and
how much velocity and so I still have
better instrumentation so to speak on
the economy
they'll also and this isn't
comfortable point for us but an
additional economy there will not be
much opportunity for tax avoidance
currently tax avoidance is about 40
percent in the United States and in
other words if everyone followed the
rules about 40 percent more taxes would
be being paid than are paid that's
enough to solve the deficit crisis and
so if if we in a digital economy that
government is going to theoretically
collect 40 percent more tax revenue
that's something to sell to sell them
disadvantages well and actually another
thing if they're honest central bankers
I don't know if there are any left but
was it time they're not honest central
bankers were supposed to be outside
political influence and there even some
like John Taylor out at Stanford who
actually is copying Milton Friedman from
the 50s saying we should just come up
with a very simple rule for central
bankers let's stop thinking of them
there's a great LSE economist who furs
them as like tinker's they think they're
staying at this big machine and they're
dialing in tuning in the carburetor just
right you know it's a huge conceit and
it's a it's silly we all know at this
point they just reflate us out of crises
and the crazies get bigger and bigger
and almost maybe I'm escapable now a
simple rule but you know there are such
things like the Taylor rule that have
been proposed very simple rules that
central bankers stop trying to fine-tune
economic booms and busts and just follow
this very simple rule that could all be
pre-programmed in to digital base fiat
and take all the guesswork out and
there's a real some people won the Nobel
Prize a few years ago for this thing
called rational expectations theory
which says that in the medium and long
term
none of this tinkering matters that
people learn sort of we collectively
understand and adjust our habits in
response so these government attempts to
change our behavior through stimulus and
Keynesian and monetary stimulus
ultimately just washed themselves out
anyway so we can get rid of it all and
just go actually they're very simple if
we don't get rid of central banking
altogether we can go to central bank and
that is actually very rule-based and
that can all just be literally
programmed into the system
well you could actually in effect
eliminate the central bank or eliminates
all banks including the central bank
although they'd be there it seems to me
that that the most efficient digital
system would be the the dollar because
everybody already accepts the dollar but
they would have nothing to do with it I
mean what's the hole once the algorithm
was programmed and you put in whatever
smartphone checks you needed to put into
it there would be no tinkering necessary
or I mean to me that would be the ideal
to have an algorithm that was able to to
run this whole system without human
intervention but I'm sure that's a long
wait we are but it seems to me it's
possible just from hearing people talk
about what they've done already it's
absolutely possible
from a technical perspective but is it
realistic you know in kind of hinted on
this rule of force and that you know
governments you know they carry the guns
and ultimately they get to make the
rules so something we've really been
kind of spending a lot of time thinking
about it's you know what is the
relevance and central banks in this
knowing in crypto economics so I mean my
theory kind of my ethos of how I think
about this is in a in a free society
like the United States supposedly we
should have the ability to choose what
we use is money we should have the
freedom to pick what we what we want to
trade goods and services for and it
could be a government product like the
Fiat US dollar but it should also be
allowed to be crypto currencies Bitcoin
or whatever else people deem appropriate
I mean through the ages we've used gold
and silver and want a wampum and tally
sticks and salt and what does it matter
you know if that's what we decide we
use enough in a thriving economy also
you would have options
so people are unique or different we
have different qualities and values and
things we care about and in a and a
successful free market ecosystem people
have options there's no
one-size-fits-all because we're all
different so I you know I think the
emergence of these additional monetary
systems create diversity for the for the
industry as a whole and globally and
also gives people the option to opt in
to systems that meet their values so if
we see central banks start seeing and
recognizing the benefits of this
technology how would that impact you say
Bitcoin is that a good thing is that a
bad thing is it gonna take away from the
Bitcoin economy how will that impact the
ecosystem that's building and
specifically in Bitcoin so the question
was if a central bank issues a
cryptocurrency and embraced the
technology how would it impact that coin
so now that I'm talking the microphone
I'll just take it it depends on what
they do if they if they decide to have a
monopoly which I'm assuming that they
will probably do so if you look at what
the Chinese bank has said or the Indian
Bank has said you know but if if they
decide they're gonna do a monopoly on
cryptocurrency then bitcoins going to go
to a very low value very fast the I
think the big issue is if is if somebody
comes up with the technology which is
really scalable so we hear a lot of
criticism about scalability particularly
and we also hear criticism about coming
up with a system that doesn't require
miners the question is will an
independent system like that can it be
able to beat the regulator's I would say
with the current system in the United
States no so if you look at the way
force is applied to suppress local
currencies the way it's it's used to
suppress using gold as a currency in the
United States I would say that if the
central bank decides it's gonna have a
monopoly it's gonna be pretty successful
in suppression that was a cheery thought
however if we all decided to do
something about who owns the central
bank then maybe we would get somewhere
and it seems to me since your your job
is to actually advise and what and how
they should what they should do with
these currencies right now we have
community currencies which are quite
legal and they're in a community a
community exchanging with itself and the
problem is that they're not scalable in
other words in you trust the people in
your community but it's difficult to
spend that currency in another community
because they don't know you they don't
know whether to trust you you can't
spend it with you your utility bill
etcetera but the the promise of all this
technology is that now they're coming
out with systems that do allow community
currencies to talk to each other and to
be valued against each other and so you
could actually take in another
community's currency and it would be
worth something so it seems to me that
bitcoin is just another one it's a
community that wants to trade together
and I don't see why that what the logic
would be for shutting down say Bitcoin
if you're not going to shut down every
other community currency in the country
which I don't seems to me you can make a
case that what's the harm let them let
the market decide I'd like to I'm not as
pessimistic as you Katherine I think
that I'm not as pessimistic in thinking
that the tools of Satan and powers of
courses of evil are going to be able to
stop this even if they want to at this
point all the technology can be
recreated in any graduate Department of
mathematics in any university in the
world and it's also
that what we're looking at the system's
worth working on building on blockchain
look like they save about 90% of the
cost of and so there's such economic
imperatives I would like to say you know
one of my fantasies is that we could
successfully bring litigation and assert
a common law right of offset on all the
money that's been transferred to the
Federal Reserve illegally out of the US
government and literally get the
ownership of the central bank back
because I think that would facilitate
the transition good luck I think
everything that has to do with the
Federal Reserve strip some wires in
Washington and a whole bunch of unseen
forces come to work and none of our
normal intuitions about accountability
of government seem to come into play
well you know despite that you the Fed
really the Federal Reserve really has
not taken an adverse approach to Bitcoin
yet and it's I mean I've been watching
that it's very very closely since the
inception and it's actually been quite
fascinating to see the feds kind of
evolution so in 2014 the first time the
Fed said anything about Bitcoin was when
Senator Joe Manchin asked Janet Yellen
chairman of the Fed if she would ban
Bitcoin he said there's people buying
drugs and all the legal stuff with it
will you ban it and her response this
was during congressional testimony her
response was we had no jurisdiction shut
the F up like next question it was that
was the first time the Fed said the word
Bitcoin and it was under congressional
testimony but she just said we do not
have jurisdiction next question and that
was it
we didn't hear the Fed say another word
about Bitcoin our blockchain until July
of 2017 so this year there was a paper
that was put out for the next time Janet
Yellen said the word these words
earlier this year and she said this
actually twice now at a conference not
this conference obviously but a public
setting and she was asked about
blockchain and her response was this is
an important technology
she didn't elaborate a lot but she said
this is an important technology and we
should be doing everything we should to
understand it and as someone who's been
to a lot of Fed press conferences so
I've been studying monetary policy since
long before Bitcoin and a lot of that
was inspired by many of you and many of
those who are here today and I moved to
Washington to work and fight for a
better economic future and so I paid a
lot attention to what happens and any
type of public opportunity to engage
with the Fed and you know essentially
anytime the fellowship is very very very
conservative and I you know I did this
with Ben Bernanke and Janet Yellen and
anytime they say anything publicly
they're just incredibly conservative
because they could sneeze wrong and the
markets will change so there's not a lot
so the fact that she said this is an
important technology was a big and it
means they're they're really paying
attention so yes and and it's easy to
understand the reluctance of the Federal
Reserve to give any clear answer on this
because the Federal Reserve enables the
cover-up of the boom-bust cycles through
quantitative easing and and when and
with that that simple mechanism they're
able to make the economy of black box
they've never passed an audit they've
never had their Ron Paul and I were the
only two people in Congress who tried to
push to audit the Fed and their lack of
audit ability is connected directly to
the lack of transparency which they
prize and when you go to to blockchain
which as a a higher level of
accountability and it does have you know
at some point you know it can it can
be certified to have an audit trail you
know it's easy to understand why the Fed
wouldn't want anything that would expose
their underlying defects so is there so
if central banks were to started
adopting and issuing their own ball
chain based fee I digital currency you
know thoughts on how that would impact
that coin good bad well it would
validate the whole crypto space and this
in one dynamic would be it would
validate in a way that the public
obviously the public is not going to
understand this at any level of depth
but that the underlying technology of
crypto had been endorsed by issuing
digital money I would think would have a
salutary effect for Bitcoin itself it's
not like it would be crowded out
overnight
I would guess there's two ways to design
digital currency and one would be a
blockchain currency one would be public
and one would be private and I would
guess that the central bank would issue
a public digital currency one that so
that would have other protection like
consumer protections you could you could
still sue you could you could reverse a
transaction if the party on the other
side didn't didn't perform so you could
still have niches where they would have
their currency doing something and
showing what a good thing blockchain was
or what are the crypto currency and
something like a black chain and then
Bitcoin can be doing something else
which is private trades or whatever
their niche is the other thing I would
just I think it's important to
understand that so far Bitcoin in the
cryptocurrency market has been a real
positive for the central banks
particularly the Fed in two ways one it
shifted tremendous demand out of the
gold market and essentially what they've
been trying to do is maintain or the
goal
golde the price of gold is a smoke alarm
and they like to make sure the smoke
alarm is turned off while they're
engaging in a very liberal monetary
policy but the other thing is it's
soaking up a lot of dollars essentially
you know that might be causing inflation
elsewhere so bitcoins in some respects
has been very good news for the Fed
Bitcoin what's the analogy there well I
don't you know I think I think right now
bitcoin is a speculative investment I
mean I'll just give you my conjecture
because I've spent a lot of time and so
as this gentleman focused on sort of how
the markets get inter intervened with
one of my favorite quotes is from one of
the gold-bug said about two years ago
threw up his hand in disgust he said you
know we don't have in markets anymore
it's all just interventions and but if
you look at the extent to which the
exchange Stabilization Fund and other
mechanisms of both the Fed and Treasury
intervened and the stock and bond
markets the amount of money it would
take to pump Bitcoin is nothing for
these guys I mean if you look at how
much they're intervening with in the
markets all day long so I don't you know
I have no idea why the price of Bitcoin
is doing what it's doing but it wouldn't
surprise me if they weren't happy to see
it rise dramatically and that's because
they wanted to soak up well it's a
couple of things there are a couple of
reasons why they might want one you've
done a tremendous job of pulling people
out of the gold markets and and the most
feisty vocal people okay and so it's
very helpful even though it's a small
market and a small number of people it's
it's just very help healthy to have
those the other thing is a lot of the
people who buy and trade Bitcoin are
very very smart and they're helping to
figure out the technology one of the
things I mentioned yesterday there's a
wonderful book I recommend it to
everybody here called the master switch
by Tim Wu and as a professor at Columbia
ran for lieutenant governor of New York
and it's a history it's the subtitle is
the rise and fall of information empires
and he gives the history of how a new
technology will come out everybody has
an innovative period we have this
wonderful blossoming like we see at this
conference here and then when suddenly
everything centralizes and he goes
through many many phases over the last
100 200 years and I think our challenge
here is how do we make sure this time
it's different
[Laughter]
well let's talk about some efforts that
are underway so what are some central
banks that have well I guess one of the
most I just want to know what Patrick's
starting a central bank sounds like
you're starting one we're we have
Central Bank on a box we will have this
done by December and the point the
imagine being able to go to a completely
collapsing place like Venezuela or Syria
tell the central banker here's your
laptop you generate a key boom boom put
in your safe cold storage and from now
on when would you want to issue your
country's fiat you just type in how much
you issue it gets issued on blockchain
and everyone in your country just
downloads an app so what's cool is
countries may have only 10% of people
have a bank account but a hundred and
forty percent of people have telephones
because people have two telephones so
you just downloaded an app and now you
through your app you can you can pay for
your chicken you can do everything you
would do you could actually run an
economy and then we staple peer-to-peer
lending on that and you can start
rebuilding all the functions of a whole
financial system but without those those
institutions we've been relying well
which we have - we're talking different
central bank's I can't I just came from
China and chance for the central bank to
I know that are working on this stuff
for China Netherlands Sweden Bank of
England
but I've just heard the Bank of China
said that they're not going to be the
first they're gonna wait until some
other country introduces this it's a
real opportunity for some other nation
to actually introduce what becomes a new
could be a new global reserve currency
I'd like to jump in here because you
know you have central banks that are
moving worldwide to get into digital
Korean currency
you mentioned People's Bank of China
there they're actually doing trials
right now on a prototype currency and it
would work in four steps first to create
the crypto currency and transfer it to
commercial banks when they need more
liquidity second to transfer the crypto
currency on to customers digital wallets
third to wire the crypto currency from
digital wallets to merchants digital
wallets or accounts and fourth to have
merchants deposit the crypto currency
from their digital wallet into their
commercial bank account and as you
pointed out the Bank of England has
published a number of reports I have I
actually have one here right now Bank of
France is in a blockchain experiment for
interbank payments the German central
bank in 2016 revealed a conceptual study
for blacks and based settlement
solutions the Dutch Central Bank
included digital cash as an option under
2016 report the Danish Central Bank
issued a report in 2016 on the e Crona
and making currency units traceable at
all times using a black chain that
chronologically records and allows
tracking of all each currency
transactions you mentioned the sweetest
Central Bank they're issuing a report in
2017 on her own ax the Bank of Canada
published a paper in May 2017 that
private digital securities could
circulate widely only with government
regulation but public digital currencies
can always circulate widely if they're
an instrument by which taxes can be paid
and you have central banks and
authorities that are looking at digital
currencies in Hong Kong Singapore
Vietnam
but I'd like to add this as a cautionary
no it's a big mistake that all the banks
appear to be making is they're
replicating the same structural flaws in
the present system which means boombox
that you mention you alluded to that
before about about building that in so
you've been basically
detective movement yeah it's kind of
funny and I was just driving a couple
days we're building a blockchain Walt
version of Wall Street too and we have
this and it's live and it's working and
and the banks who are trying to do
theirs it was interesting to me over the
last couple years and talk to them to
realize how much they wanted to rebuild
the system with all of its current flaws
it's like you've got this new I tell
them it's like we've got this new
Maserati and you're insisting on
installing your lawnmower engine we
don't need a lot we can do much better
than that
but it's because they want those bankers
want all the various opportunities for
net settlement and various games that go
on in the settlement process so the
question would be you know how do you
how do you avoid the problem and one way
is to have the national digital currency
issued by the National Treasury servants
with central banks being agents and
custodians so they're not you know in
the ball game as being the people that
are issuing it I'm sorry you would have
who issued and said this central
Treasuries so a separation of powers yes
you take it you take you just takes away
the power from the central banks now you
mentioned you you said you know a public
solution and of course in this community
we're seeing a lot of private
blockchains that are being introduced
mostly by regulated financial
institutions you know the banks
corporates so I guess thoughts on if if
if central banks would steer towards a
public versus a private watching issued
digital currency the difference where
the public system would be that you you
could at your name would be on it and so
people you you can actually well
in all this you had asked who had gotten
the furthest long I think the Bank of
England has gotten the farthest along in
theoretical the projections of what you
could do one of which would be the full
reserve banking eliminating fractional
reserve banking among private banks but
India has gotten the farthest along I
think in terms of what you could do with
the public well this whole technological
system so the first thing they did like
five and a half years ago they before
that fifty percent of the population had
no IDs because they were not born in a
hospital so they couldn't get bank
accounts they were borrowing at sixty
percent interest payday lender loans
rates so they did digitalized scans and
thumb prints and they got the entire
population 1.1 billion out of 1.2
billion people now have IDs so they can
prove who they are then they opened up
they made it very easy to get a bank
account so not everybody but lots of
people got big accounts then they did
this payment system where you can
actually transfer money to a friend or
whatever the peer-to-peer so it's you
can prove your identity all you need is
their telephone number and you can
transfer the money across so I think I
understand it's like that the telephone
company adds it to the telephone bill
and that's how the money transferred and
the fourth thing is India stock where
this is the really cool part where
they've got all your information you can
you can choose who to share it with so
you can share your medical information
with your doctor if you want or not you
know your whole medical history and you
can share your payment history so you
can prove that you're a good pay you
paid your utility bills etc so these
little tiny shopkeepers that before
we're paying 60% for payday loans now
can get a very cheap loan in five
minutes on their cell phone just by they
say I want $500 and then the various
peer-to-peer lenders people with money
that when a land we'll give you the
terms and then they can click which loan
they want and
and it's done so it's basically like a
credit card that you get on your
cellphone but they're your that's called
a public system because you want people
to know who you are the idea is to show
your identity and to show that you are a
good pay so the trust is in you
personally it's like a community
currency system where you want people's
trust or you you want to be known the
fact that you have a good reputation is
what you're trading on and then so
that's the opposite of a private system
where all you are is a long code so the
code can be followed and in that sense
it's transparent I mean nobody can can
fiddle with it but nobody knows who that
is at the end of the code code and one
of the lab one of the downsides of that
would be if you pay for a product and
the product is defective or whatever you
don't you can't really there's no
recourse to it so they're pluses and
minuses but anyway I think a national
system would probably be a public system
so let me just jump in it I'd like to
explain one of the reasons you will see
financial people central bankers
financial regulators one a complex
process with many more steps than we
think we need so let me give you an
example in the early 90s I took a hold
of the technology and I said oh this is
going to solve everything and I'm gonna
take a company and I'm gonna prototype
the economics of a government of
business a community and figure out the
solution to everything and everything
was totally high tech everything was
high speed the fewest steps possible we
had all the best technology we were
going really really fast and then I
litigated with the federal government
now and if you came to my office in
Hickory Valley Tennessee I live across
from the Hickory Valley cotton gin you
would see the what you would describe is
the most inefficient operation you've
ever seen you would see hard disks
copies of everything I have on the web
in different safes around the world you
would see everything in paper you would
see everything in four or five steps and
the reason you would
see that is because understanding the
legal and political and information
systems that I'm dealing with in the the
absence of integrity that is in fact for
me a much more efficient system so if
we're going to have anywhere from a
financial institution to a central bank
agree to come down and do things in very
simple steps in a high-speed I attack it
comes back again to how do we get
integrity in those systems because I
don't know about you but in information
systems I'm seeing the integrity going
the other way so well what I'm seeing is
is significantly I mean every year I
spend a fantastic amount of money
dealing with everything from spam and
junk mail to denial of service attacks
you know it's a war you know we're in a
war and it's it's a you know and and
it's constant the amount of time and
money I spend on seduce you know digital
warfare you know it's a major expense
yeah so I'm sure you do so so how do we
trust these systems and put more of our
economy on these systems when it's going
the other way well I think most of our
economy or it is on digital systems I
think three percent of currency is
actually right but it's you know it's on
it's on financial institutions have
those 26 steps because they're concerned
about these things and they're using
those 26 steps to protect against it and
the more they go to you know a two-step
system or a four-step system the higher
risk they run I'm not sure about that
part I think that the more you move into
blockchain the more of their back office
gosh it's amazing people and the
Katherine knows this but if you're not
involved in the back-office plumbing of
the financial system you have no idea it
doesn't work I think it works and it is
paper and Excel spreadsheets emailed and
I knew somebody who's working the Fed
and telling me you can't believe it they
still get like twelve emails a day with
Excel spreadsheets and she wrote a
program faxes yeah well I mean that's a
good point
so a lot of the banks are I mean pretty
much every bank every major at least
National Bank is looking at blockchain
in some capacity some much more further
down the process than others and the
banks will be getting into
implementation of their distributed
ledger solutions you know probably
within within the next year I would
expect a few pilots going into
implementation so if you're starting to
see Wall Street the existing financial
system adopt these distributed ledger
systems for various back-office purposes
clearing settlement so on and so forth
how could that affect central bank's
specifically the Fed because they are
supervisors of most of these
institutions so do you think taking that
will push solutions along inside the
central bank as well could that push us
towards you know a blockchain beast
monetary system I think their
surveillance needs will be get met much
much better system they'll be able to
track much better what's going on is
that good or bad
well they'll think it's good they
meeting that yeah are the bankers the
federal have more fine-tuned acoustical
control over that stuff they're trying
to find her so I have a question for you
Patrick okay so no one has done more on
the planet to illuminate some of the
monkey business in the stock market than
you so you may not know this is one of
those courageous man in the game
so what do you think would happen to the
equity market clearing system in the new
york stock exchange
if you blockchain that given where we
are probably given your work on well I
would have said years ago I thought that
there was a multitrillion-dollar
bezel pothole buried in that system
waiting to get that was gonna explode I
don't know after 2008 now there's
another thing trillions of dollars went
places it's we have no idea really worth
a bunch of money went but part that may
have been part of the bailout me but
there was a reset there I don't know I
used to I used to think 10 years ago
that there was a multi trillion-dollar
black hole in there that was starting to
just as you did you you've Catherine
we're mutual buyers here he did this
stock market I did the mortgage market
and your stuff on that how much the the
US government's own books don't match
well here's my concern I mean here's my
concern because I think we've had a
financial coup d'etat and what I would
like to do is not you know we're gonna
go through a very dramatic and radical
change it's inevitable I believe that so
how do we go through this change without
further empowering the the people who
stole all the money in the financial
code this is well that's where I feel a
little bit more optimistic I see I was
out of this Silicon Valley company a
year a few years ago and it's a stealth
company backed by the guys well we
backed it and a guy from AOL and they're
on the wall they have a hundred and
sixty institutions of that basically
binds civilization together that they
saw the blockchain as disrupting and I
see that I see that the blockchain these
are like for six thousand years we have
accumulated these barnacles on the hull
of civilization and the barnacles are
institutions that permit us to engage in
consensual exchange or some kind so we
have these 160 maybe barnacles on our
that blockchain is going to scrape off
after could I ask you you know since
you've been involved in securities
wouldn't blockchain help eliminate
security fraud
oh yeah good for you that's exactly when
you rebuild Wall Street on blockchain
you make all kinds of mischief that goes
on all kinds of fraud that currently
goes on in the market actually just
becomes impossible someone tells me
they'll have to come up with a new name
for Wall Street so I want to bring up
one secret what I was doing in the 90s
was downloading all the data of
government money and then looking at on
a neighborhood basis so if we had a true
democracy
yeah but I was collecting all the
government data government-wide if we
had a true democracy you would get
financial statements not just for the
federal government but for your
neighborhood and you would be able to
get actionable intelligence about how to
improve the performance of government
money and resources in your neighborhood
now that information was suppressed
during the 90s and American citizens
have never really gotten that
intelligence if you have a thousand
hours you can put it together for your
neighborhood but most people don't have
a thousand hours but let me tell you the
little secret I learned doing that which
is the secret to how we transition this
and that is if you look at the current
equity valuation of all wealth on planet
Earth however you estimated it's less
than 1% of what it could be that's how
extraordinary the suppression and
centralization has been and that's why
it's so important
whatever we do that we sequence the
transition in a way that rebalances and
and diversify power because the it's the
centralization of power that is doing
this and what we need to do is
completely rebalance the power and part
of our struggle is this is not a
national issue it's entirely global so
we found I would like to
very yes if you have you've identified
the philosophical underpinnings of the
dilemma we have which is that the the
fed's creation was about the
centralization of a banking power
Washington DC exists as centralized
power right the more money goes in the
department you know Department of
offense the more money that goes into
the feds quite you know quite a
qualitative easing the more bailouts
that occur the power centralized you
know I actually chaired a Congressional
subcommittee that investigated the
subprime meltdown and looked at the
bailouts and at the same time I tried to
see if there was a way well the banks
were being bailed out which I opposed to
to make sure that people could stay in
their homes and Democrat Democratic
Treasury secretary at the time Tim
Geithner told the meeting of Democrats
that millions of people going to lose
their homes well he's asking for us to
continue to help prop up Wall Street and
this happens when you have centralized
power now what you're talking about and
what black chain represents is an
opportunity to flip the equation
decentralize the power take it to the
local level so that power flows up from
a local level to the top and set it the
top down which is oppression so you know
this is really the key issue that is a
principle of governance as well as a
principle of finance and thank you you
know black chains for the introduction
of the technology which changes all the
discussions about governance and finance
and everything else so on on that point
we've got about ten minutes I'm gonna
ask one more question to address the
global issue that you raised and then
I'll open it up to the audience for some
additional questions so Dennis you
mentioned the the work that the People's
Bank of China is doing the Chinese
central bank so we're seeing some mixed
signals from
in that the central bank does have
efforts underway to potentially harness
this technology then on the other side
they've also come out with some very
draconian policies in terms of the
public sector are the private sector for
example that the banning of I see this
so-called ban on icos shutting down the
exchanges making it incredibly difficult
for the private sectors who engage in
the crypto economy so so what is trying
to have up their sleeve well I mean what
what is I guess what is your kind of
thought behind the madness well you know
in a way you have to look at China and
Russia both because they're both players
in this and we're we're getting mixed
signals coming from both China and
Russia honest regulators in both
countries are implementing drastic
measures to curtail private sector
activity in the blockchain sector but
we're also seeing signals of increased
interest for government issued
blockchain applications including state
issued digital currencies so I think
that as far as you know it's very clear
these government's will want to control
blockchain activities within their
jurisdictions and we're also seeing that
as a result of their experimentation
here you're seeing initiatives and
vehicles including the the one belt one
road policy where they're really
interested in creating the old Silk Road
and they're looking for ways to help do
that and as they get into more and more
transactions blockchain is going to be
absolutely imperative for them to be
able to advance their economic
strategies and I think the the smartest
thing of course let it be said that
there are some who believe you know in
an American Imperium that will not be
very happy with that but from my view
it'd be good if the United States
participated so we have kind of a
win-win scenario and got away from the
competition and more into the
collaborative aspects of it you go you
go well I'm wearing my Maoist
because I just came back and I Confucius
say Whole Foods Sha Tin Xia dong
that means there's great harmony under
heaven the Chinese prize social
stability they have become very the the
ICO bubble
coupled with the fact that there have
been some an awful lot of IC errors that
seem to be not much real business
underneath that they have suddenly
gotten really spooked and they are
afraid of social unrest that will come
about when if and when there's a great
big crash so that is why at least as of
last week they told me they are I was
there the day they shut off all the
exchanges or they give all the change 30
days to be out of business and so anyway
that's they they say it's all about
social stability and they kind of want
to sit back and see they seem to have
first of all a China is now announced
for their new five-year program the
three key technologies are big data AI
or machine learning and blockchain it's
like this national priority in their new
five-year plan is this technology but
they I think my sense is that what they
saw a year ago what they greeted with
excitement even now they understand
really just how disruptive this is going
to be and they're sitting back as they
want to see what happens in other
countries that's what they indicated
they could be shown interesting well I'd
like to save some time for audience
questions if that's okay and we do have
some questions so you can you put your
hand up first so
major issue which is how this policy
bacon this if you were to release your
digital currency as a fiat currency
mechanism within a country who controls
what decisions are made in that
heuristic system which is theoretically
believed to work better than the current
system you have never tested a system
outfitted with a few simple rules that
drives monetary policy purely through
through that automated manner and you
know as a petitioner in this space I can
tell you that the number of unintended
consequences that we can't even see out
there in implementing such rules could
be drastically dangerous so I'm sure
that there ways to address this but I
welcome hear your comments about how
policy making for example and what lines
change what heuristics add to the system
when you see things perhaps going out of
weapon who controls that you'd hate for
the answer to be what Facebook say okay
well I think he's you know asking you
know the Devils in the details right so
this is a major topic we're talking
about so I'd like to I'd like to give it
I'd like to make a try it out on Oprah's
answer question directly but you know
I've my time in Congress I've thought
about monetary policy and its
relationship to some of the broader
issues in a society and as I started off
my presentation parallels between a bill
that I introduced and that would
facilitate some of the same features
that I change about but here's a this
bill that I wrote which was called the
national employment emergency defense
Act actually has these characteristics
that would change the role the federal
reserve it would put the federal reserve
as a bureau under the Treasury and and
the basis for that you know it's a
little copy of the Constitution I carry
with me in case the original one
disappears and I and and this is an
article one section eight the power to
coin money and it's a you know that
literally just coin but the participant
money came from the government now I'm
not interested in the government running
banks because I was in banking is a
proper function of government but
control and oversight of the monetary
system system must be done by the
government and so what I bill that I
reduced had three three features number
one the Federal Reserve and corporate in
the US Treasury which would nationalize
the money system and not the banking
system to the fractional reserve lending
would be stopped so banks wouldn't be
able to create money out of nothing
they'd still be in business and act as
intermediaries with their clients but
they no longer be able to create the
nation's money supply in three
new money would be introduced by the
government putting in his circulation
and to meet the needs of the country now
and blockchain would fit right in that
and so you know yes there are policy
considerations but with me one of the
principal ones is to look at the role of
the Federal Reserve yesterday in this
auditorium just about the same time 24
hours ago we had dr. Griffin a very
learned person on the Federal Reserve
history talked about how the Federal
Reserve's just a scam and it and it
permits a system is placed that bait
basically disempowers everyone you know
the 99 percent and maybe some of the 1%
and I'm not a poet I'm not talking about
taking anything away from with this plan
about redistributing wealth I'm not
interested in redistribution I'm
interested in distribution and and if
you have monetary policies that are
consistent with the constitutional
prerogative that were laid out by the
founders I think we could get to that so
the system you describe if you know the
the Patrick described if you if you try
to automate the monetary policy in a
place the issue is always going to come
back to your under the governance of the
governance of that place and then the
question is just the governance have
integrity or not and we're always coming
back to this question and I'll tell you
why I've said for many many years crime
that pays his crime that stays and
within his system the question is who
decides and then who enforces if you
read the Constitution we have the
obligation to enforce but in fact we
have an enforced okay and and in fact if
you look at where we bank
I think 50% or more of Americans have
directly or indirectly banking
relationships with JPMorgan Chase okay
so if you look at where we vote with our
time with our attention the media we
watch the banks we support we're not
enforcing we're not a lot of people have
been talking this conference about how
we live our lives personally and whether
we're enforcing what we say our values
are and what this is going to come down
to
for 7 billion people planet-wide is are
we going to self enforce and are good
are we going to enforce by how we
conduct ourselves or are we going to
need a central structure to enforce but
ultimately for any monetary system again
I say there's no there's no financial
solution for a political problem
any financial solution is going to be
under governance and that government is
has integrity or dozen and so when
Patrick prototypes this in a place the
question is going to be who's going to
govern the implementation and oversight
and do they have integrity according to
whatever governance structure has been
agreed to by the people of that place
and we have we have one minute so
closing thoughts from Patrick and well
it seems to me that it's very likely
that the US and all the big country
which will wait for somebody else to do
it first and see how it works I think it
might be India because they have the
political will I mean they have these
desperately poor people and they don't
have this prior infrastructure that they
have to break down they can just zero
right in on the goal and if that works
then everybody else will follow and
there will be you know major major
consequences that it seems to me that
private banking will probably disappear
private fractional reserve banking the
reserve currency system would probably
disappear we would no longer be that the
reserve currency for the world it
wouldn't be necessary that would change
a lot of political things so it's an
interesting time to be alive and I'll
make two quick points one is to the
gentleman's question the question of
central bank's going digital and the
question of instituting rule-based
monetary policy are two different
questions central bank could take our
central bank in a in a box and issued a
digital currency and if they still think
that they can manage they want to manage
the business cycles of their country by
dialing that they can do it on our
central bank in a box I think they'd be
smarter to just let base put some basic
ground rules in and I think the
unexpected consequences are gonna be far
fewer
simple rules than on the the people who
think they can fine-tune things and
secondly ultimately what we're trying to
get to is this a way we can communicate
with each other information about two
things value and scarcity
that's what prices is packets of
information about value and scarcity
currently we have to communicate our
information through a medium controlled
by government mandarins ultimately it
would be great if it was a medium that
was not run by government mandarins but
just governed by the laws of mathematics
a good set in getting there is to talk
to central bankers into digitizing there
through fiat my hope is that
[Applause]
wow this is wonderful part of me is
going gee I want him to go for another
three hours
the other part is going no mr. clock
says